So to answer the question,
Why keep on the watch?
there is a simple, direct answer.
But we have a second reason as well
to share during this talk.
Find Mark,
and we’re going to read
chapter 13.
And it leads to our main reason why,
but the context will really help us
in verse 32.
Let’s read that:
“Concerning that day or the hour
“nobody knows,
“neither the angels in heaven nor the Son,
but the Father.
“Keep looking, keep awake,
“for you do not know
when the appointed time is.
“It is like a man traveling abroad
who left his house
“and gave the authority to his slaves,
to each one his work,
“and commanded the doorkeeper
to keep on the watch.
“Keep on the watch, therefore,
“for you do not know
when the master of the house is coming,
“whether late in the day or at midnight
“or [at] dawn or early in the morning,
“in order that when he comes suddenly,
he does not find you sleeping.”
Now, that’s our Lord and Master
—very direct.
He’s compassionate (true) but direct.
And then the main reason why—verse 37:
“What I say to you, I say to all
“[so it’s being repeated
to all of us listening]:
Keep on the watch.”
Very simple, very direct.
That’s what is expected.
However, and I appreciated—
I hadn’t heard Brother Cook’s talk
(knew about the details and such),
but he emphasized for all of us,
and it’s connected here,
Jehovah as a God of comfort.
So while it’s true that we want
to sometimes address directly
the things that Jesus has taught us,
it doesn’t mean that Jehovah is
no longer a God of comfort.
He wants to comfort us.
So this is the second reason.
If you’ll find Isaiah,
we’re going to read in chapter 48.
And it’s a very fine thought
about why keep on the watch.
In verse 17—very familiar to us—
you’ll see the point:
“This is what Jehovah says, your Repurchaser,
“the Holy One of Israel:
“‘I, Jehovah, am your God,
“‘the One teaching you to benefit yourself,
the One guiding you
in the way you should walk.’”
Now, how we appreciate the footnote
that adds depth
to what Jehovah is saying here:
“Or ‘for your own good’”!
Isn’t that priceless?
Why keep on the watch?
It’s for our own good.
It really is.
And that’s the point
Jesus and Jehovah want us to take away.
We’re trying to address that with this talk
because some of you
have been serving Jehovah
for a long time.
And I’m not going to stare at anybody
because I know different ones,
and it’s just amazing how Jehovah
has been there for you all these years.
But you’re only human.
And we’ll address some concerns
that some raise.
And I just want to have you
think about this here
—a personal experience.
Many years ago, my sons, Jesse and Paul,
were in the early years of school
—elementary school.
And back at the time—
I haven’t heard it a lot lately,
but from time to time,
this would come up at a social gathering.
Now, mind you, they’re
in second grade and first grade,
but these boys were thinkers.
So they’d listen,
and they appreciated all these older ones.
We had a number of them in Rhode Island
—longtime servants of Jehovah God.
However, from time to time—this statement—
they’d be looking at my sons and say:
“Oh, you’ll never graduate in this system.
It’s not going to happen.”
So, you know, I’m at their house;
they just fed us.
Lord, help me.
What am I going to do here?
But this would come up from time to time,
at least during those years.
And maybe it was post-1975.
I don’t know.
But they’d make these statements.
And I’m going to give you a big confession
because, you know,
this one comes clear to mind.
Driving back from the gathering,
Jesse and Paul are, you know,
thinking and they’re troubled.
They’re puzzled.
What is this about?
Because, you know, they had goals.
“What are we going to do?”
And they’re thinking
of the things in the future for them
as they’re growing in their love for Jehovah.
“Is that true, Dad?”
And so I’d say, “Look . . .”
And let me tell you,
these people saying these things
were longtime servants—experienced people.
If any of you are guilty, God loves you.
He forgives you.
If you did that back then,
you didn’t help anybody.
But I’m going to give you a big confession.
So that one particular night,
we’re driving back
—it was a little distance from where we were—
and they brought that up.
They’re sitting in the back seat,
and we’re having this conversation.
And I told them—I said:
“Look, you boys remember,
“you got to keep on the watch.
This thing could go on,
and be ready for it to go to 2020.”
Honest.
I mean, we’re talking almost 40 years
—almost 40 years.
I felt pretty safe with that.
But you know what year this is.
What are you going to do?
But at least I’m happy to say
that they and my wife and their wives
are all still keeping on the watch.
We have been and plan to continue
to keep on the watch.
Now, this is just something to address
—the feelings that some have.
And these are beautiful friends
—different ones worshipping Jehovah
for many decades.
And we’re only human.
It’s the truth,
but we’re only human.
So one brother wrote,
and I appreciated his sincerity.
He said:
“During the annual meeting of 2019,
“the Ramapo project was announced.
“And if I remember right,
“it was stated that the project
would be complete in a few years.
“With recent Watchtower  articles telling us
“that we are in ‘the last of “the last days”’
“[beautiful expression,
but words are powerful],
“it seemed a little disappointing
that this may push
Armageddon off a few years.”
This was his sincere concern—really.
And you know he’s not alone.
They’re only human.
Well, how should we respond?
A brother wrote that in.
Well, remember, Jehovah is a God of comfort.
You want to go direct.
It’s what we addressed there
with what Jesus told us.
But how can we comfort him too?
Bring the truth as it is,
and be straight with it.
The Governing Body wants all of you to know
(including those that will see it later)
that we are determined to remain active
and to faithfully deliver spiritual food
at the right time.
We are also looking beyond the last days.
You’re getting that message.
Let me expound on that thought:
looking beyond the last days.
This is a quote from the Proclaimers  book.
I treasured it when the book came out,
and a lot of work went into that publication.
But there, referring to God’s people,
it stated—
You know, there was
a lot of international construction
going on at the time too,
if you were in the truth then.
I’m quoting it now:
“With the help of Jehovah’s spirit,
“they [God’s people] want to give
the greatest witness possible
“during the time that remains
before Armageddon.
“They are convinced
“that God’s new world is very close at hand,
“and they have faith
“that they will survive
as an organized people
“into that new world, under the rule
of God’s Messianic Kingdom.”
Now, please note the rest of this quote:
“It is also their hope that perhaps
“[key word]
“many of the fine facilities
that they have built
“and dedicated to Jehovah
“will continue to be used after Armageddon
“as centers from which knowledge
of the only true God
can be diffused
until it truly fills the earth.”
Beautiful thought.
It’s right there—still valid.
So in harmony
with what the faithful slave said then,
the faithful slave now says
that many of the projects
that are being worked on now
—like Ramapo, the Good News
According to Jesus  video series—
may or perhaps
will carry over into the new world
to assist the great crowd with the work ahead
and perhaps
include resurrected ones.
That’s comforting.
You have to let that sink in.
Now we want to conclude
with expressions from two friends of mine
—longtime hardworking supporters
of the faithful slave for decades.
I love these men,
and we’ll keep it anonymous.
But I asked them
to write their personal feelings
because, you know, they’ve been supporting
the slave for all these decades.
How have they benefited
from keeping on the watch?
So here’s what the first one said:
“I come from a long line of people
“who believed in keeping in expectation
of the end.
“My mother died just last year,
“and she always felt that the end
was close at hand.
“She just knew that she would live to see it,
“but she didn’t.
“She had first learned the truth
from her mother-in-law, my grandmother,
“an anointed Christian who often told me
“that she hoped to see the end
come in her lifetime.
“She didn’t.
“She had learned the truth from her mother,
who died when I was a teenager
“and firmly believed
she would see the end in her lifetime.
“She didn’t.
“And she, my great-grandmother,
“had learned the truth from her mother-in-law
“who died long before I was born
“and surely felt the same way
about seeing the end.
“She didn’t.
“And here I am now
on my seventh decade of life,
“firmly believing
that I will see the end very soon.
“So, what does that mean?
“That I’m just another one
in a long line of delusional people?
“I don’t think so for two reasons.
“One, the evidence that the end is near
keeps growing.
“I’ve seen signs of the end
that even my mother never saw,
“such as the recent pandemic.
“Sometimes I compare myself
to a man living in Judea
“around the year 608 B.C.E.
“Such a man might have come
from a long line of faithful people
“who had listened to the prophets
and thought that the end was near.
“Over a century earlier,
“hearing these things
“(and maybe his great-grandparents
might have heard Isaiah speak)
“led them to conclude
that Jerusalem’s end was near.
“Should that man decide
that his family had been deluded
“just because they hadn’t seen
the destruction of Jerusalem?
“No.
Jerusalem was destroyed in 607 B.C.E.”
So, see, he’s living in 608 B.C.E.
having these concerns.
Months later, it happens.
“But more importantly, that man would know
“that his faithful family were good people
who lived good lives.
“They loved Jehovah,
and they saw the truth of Isaiah’s words.
“God teaches us to benefit ourselves.
“And that’s the second reason
why I don’t feel that I’ve been deluded
“or that my faithful family members
have been.
“Each one who served Jehovah
led a good, productive, useful life.
“They were not just sitting around
waiting for the end.
“They always had projects
that kept them busy in Jehovah’s service
“—goals and personal study
and preaching and helping others.
“So they were full of purpose and joy.
“I want the same kind of life.
“Also, I can hardly wait to tell my mother
[this is touching]
“just how close the end was
“when she finally closed her eyes.
I know she will want to hear all about it.”
See, very touching.
And now the second brother relates
how keeping on the watch has benefited him.
“My mom raised
my brother and me in the truth.
“She often expressed to us her confidence
“that the end is just around the corner.
“She didn’t just say it, but she lived it.
“She devoted herself to the ministry
“so that she could help others
to serve Jehovah
“while there is still time.
“She kept in expectation of the end,
“doing so year after year
“until she died.
“Now I’m approaching
the age of my mother when she died.
“I’ve been keeping on the watch
for over 50 years now.
“Am I bitter because the end
has not yet come?
“No, not at all.
“How could I be?
“I’ve lived a full and satisfying life
“by living according to Jehovah’s standards.
“Why would I want to live any other way?
“What has helped me to keep positive
while waiting for the end to come?
“From time to time, I reflect
on these few things [and here they are]:
“My dedication is unconditional and unending.
“I did not dedicate myself to Jehovah
“on the condition that he brings the end
within my lifetime
“or even on the condition
that he gives me a reward.
“I dedicated myself to him forever.
“And next, I must keep
the big picture in mind.
“I don’t want to make the mistake of focusing
“only on what the end will mean for me
“—the prospect of surviving
into the new world.
“Rather, I must focus
on something far more important
“—what the end will mean for Jehovah
“and the sanctification of his name.
“Knowing how important that is to him,
“I can be sure that it will happen
in his due time.”
And then finally:
“Meanwhile, I must endure to the end.
“That means to the end of this system
or to the end of my life,
“whichever comes first.
“Either way, the older I get,
the closer I am to the end.
“What if, like my mom,
I don’t live to see it?
“No worries.
“The moment I close my eyes in death,
“my next conscious thought will be
“opening my eyes in the new world.
“Then it really won’t matter
whether I live to see the end or not.”
Beautiful expressions
of two beautiful spiritual men.
So the question to conclude is,
Will this be the last annual meeting
before the great tribulation?
Nobody raised their hand.
We don’t know.
But what we do know
is that Jehovah and Jesus want us
to keep on the watch.
And it’s for our own good to do so.